# Examining Future Changes in Tropical Cylone Behavior Near Landfall
Analysis of tropical cyclone (TC) count/frequency, intensity, and translation speed in the North Atlantic basin based on historical observations, historical simulations, and future simulations in Python. Packages used include NumPy, Matplotlib, Xarray, SciPy, GeoPandas, and Shapely.  

### Abstract (as of August 2021)

Tropical cyclones (TCs) are some of the most dangerous weather events in the world, and it is important to understand potential changes in their behavior due to future climate change. In this project, the intensities of TCs near landfall were analyzed using statistical methods. The datasets used in this analysis were IBTrACS (historical estimation of observed TC tracks and wind speeds from 1985-2014), REF (variable resolution Community Atmosphere Model version 5  -CAM5- simulation of TCs from 1985-2014), RCP4.5 (variable resolution simulation of TCs in a future climate with global warming from 2070-2100), and RCP8.5 (same as RCP4.5 but with a higher rate of warming). TCs within 100, 200, and 300 km of the eastern U.S. coast were analyzed. The REF simulation underestimates both total TC count in the North Atlantic basin and TC count in coastal regions when compared to IBTrACS, although this difference decreases with increasing distance from the coast. The median intensity of these storms is slightly higher in the REF simulation compared to IBTrACS. Two-sample Kolmogorov-Smirnov (KS) tests at the 5% significance level were conducted to compare intensity distributions of the REF ensembles to the future RCP4.5 and RCP8.5 ensembles. The distributions of all intensities in the buffer, the maximum intensity for each storm in the buffer, and the average intensity for each storm were analyzed. None of the RCP4.5 or RCP8.5 intensity distributions showed a statistically significant difference when the alternative hypothesis was that the values were greater than the REF values. In fact, the RCP4.5 distributions of all intensities in the 200 and 300 km buffers had values that were statistically less than the values in the REF simulation. This was also true for all RCP8.5 intensity distributions except the distribution of all intensities in the 100 km buffer. This work was supported with funding from Undergraduate Research & Creative Activities (URECA). Future work will explore TC coastal impacts using additional climate model simulations and potentially additional variables.
